[THEME MUSIC]
>>Hello, this is
Michael Tellinger.
And we continue our
journey of discovery
through southern Africa through
millions of stone circles,
trying to find a flagship
ruin amongst this vast number
of stone structures
and stone circles.
Is there a flagship
ruin then we can
find that'll give us something
special in our research?
And yes there is.
It's called Adam's Calendar.
And this is truly
a phenomenal story,
one of the greatest
discoveries of an ancient site
in the 21st century.
It was discovered
by a chap called
Johan Heine, who I've
become good friends
with over the years, in 2003.
It was a fluke discovery,
when he flew over
the site in a helicopter trying
to find one of his pilots
who happened to crash
land in that area.
And his airplane went
over the edge of a cliff
and got stuck in the thick
bushes and the sink trees
and shrubs growing on
the edge of a cliff,
dropped down about 300 meters.
And his pilot survived
the crash and was sitting
there waiting to be rescued.
When they came looking
for him the next morning,
Johan flew over the site
of Adam's Calendar--
or the calendar site, as it
was called at that stage--
and he looked down
and realized, hold on,
that is not just an
accumulation of stones, that is
a highly significant structure.
And he came back and he
started measuring the site,
and five years later
met up with me.
And our research continued.
Well, Johan discovered
that this site
had all the important
encoding in it that we
in all ancient structures.
But the most important
thing about this
is that this not
a new discovery.
This has been well known
by ancient knowledge
keepers in southern Africa.
The shamanic knowledge
keepers, the wisdom keepers
of African ancient
knowledge, and stories
that have been handed down
for thousands of years
have known about this site
for a long, long time.
One of these is
Baba Credo Mutwa,
the Zulu shaman that has
become very well known
around the world.
And Credo Mutwa
well told me that he
was initiated as a young shaman
at Adam's Calendar, or Inzalo
Ye Langa, as he
calls it, in 1937.
Now I gave the place
the name Adam's Calendar
shortly after we found it and
I had to write a book about it.
I instinctively knew that
it was somehow connected
to the origins of humankind.
Well, I had no idea how
close to the truth I was.
So when I met Credo
Mutwa, what he told me
that this is known as Inzalo
Ye Langa, or "birthplace
of the Sun," and not necessarily
the S-U-N, but the S-O-N,
as the sons of the gods.
Because this is the
site that is apparently
where humanity was created
by the gods, as has
been handed down by the
African knowledge keepers.
And it wasn't just any god
that created humanity here,
because this is,
once again, where
we find the connection between
ancient African knowledge
and wisdom and the
Sumerian texts.
Because it was
the same Enki that
was responsible for the
vast gold mining empire
at the southern tip of Africa.
This site was initiated
and constructed by Enki,
known in African
tradition as Ngai,
the creator of the human race.
So this is what
Adam's Calendar looks
like from a helicopter shot.
To describe it briefly to you,
the tree on the right is north,
the tree on the left is south,
and we have east, west moving
away from us into the distance.
The edge of the cliff
that you see here
is really the edge that drops
down about 200 or 300 meters
into the Barberton valley.
And this is where we find
the sediment of sea sand
that stretches right
across the area
where we also find Sheba gold
mine, one of the wealthiest
gold mines in the world.
And it is my belief that
this Barberton valley
in ancient times was
covered and filled
with hundreds of
ancient gold mines
that have been covered by the
flood and the sea sand sediment
that came from the flood.
This is the view looking out
into the Barberton valley
from Adam's Calendar.
This is a reconstructed
3D reconstruction
that I had done of
the ancient site.
Because it's so badly
broken down and so
destroyed that only when you
re-erect it like this can
you really see the
significance of the site.
And it's spectacular,
because there
are so many amazing discoveries
once you start exploring it.
And my journey of discovery
of the ancient sites
really began with
exploring Adam's Calendar
and then connecting it to my
research in the stone circles.
First of all, north
and south run directly
between the two central
calendar stones.
These are some of
the early discoveries
that Johan Heine made when he
started mapping out the site
and realizing that it was
aligned with the solstices
and equinoxes, north,
south, east, west,
the cardinal points,
and all the key elements
that are always encoded in
most of the ancient sites
that we discover on this planet.
This is a view looking south
between the two calendar
stones, seeing
that the line goes
from the northern to the
southern marker stones right
through the middle.
And here Johan points
out where the wooden pole
is that there was something
missing-- a stone was removed
from that particular position.
And we found what that stone
was through a sequence what
was pretty much like a
criminal investigation.
We discovered that there was
a stone, which we ended up
calling the "stone man," which
is to stand in this position,
and was removed around 1992
out of this particular site.
The reason for this still
remains very mysterious.
We don't know why they
removed the stone,
if they did this consciously,
or just ignorantly
because it was an
interesting looking stone.
And we ended up calling
it the "stone man".
In 1994 the stone
man was returned
from the workshop of
the forestry department
in the nearby town
of Kaapschehoop.
It was returned
from the workshop
and brought into the
Blue Swallow Nature
Reserve, in which Adam's
Calendar is located today,
and put up at the entrance to
the Blue Swallow Nature Reserve
to carry a plaque.
So it a sequence of
unbelievable coincidences
that brought the stone man
back much closer to the site
from which it was removed.
And it ended up standing
there-- it still stands there
today-- bearing the
plaque commemorating
the launching and the opening
of the Blue Swallow Nature
Reserve.
I think it's ironic that they
desecrated one of the oldest
sites on planet Earth
to put a plaque on it
to commemorate a nature reserve.
This is quite spectacular.
What I must tell you as
well is that this stone man
is referred to by Credo Mutwa
as the clitoris of Mother Earth.
And it was a tool that
vibrated and resonated.
And it is also at this
point that he told me
that this calendar site
or Inzalo Ye Langa,
is not only where humanity
was created by the gods
but where heaven mated with
Mother Earth-- and this
is very, very important--
where the genetic material
and the genetic DNA was
mixed and blended with that
of some primordial being that
was found on this planet.
Whether it was already an
advanced species or a lesser
advanced species, that still
remains open to be discussed.
But it is where heaven mated
with Mother Earth and humanity
was brought forth in a
genetic manipulation of DNA.
There's a lot more to
be said about this,
because the sister
site-- if you can call it
that-- to Adam's Calendar,
where gross genetic manipulation
happened, was at Tsodilo
Hills in northern Botswana,
northwestern Botswana,
Tsodilo Hills, which
is strangely enough
and incidentally called
"mountain of the gods".
It used to be a mountain
surrounded by water
many thousands of years ago.
And this is what I
previously referred to
as most likely the original
island of Doctor Moreau.
Because this is where
some rogue Annunaki,
if you can call them
that, went into hiding.
And they started experimenting
with genetic manipulations,
crossing different
species and creating
a whole lot of
cross-species breeds
that were just really not
meant to be cross-bred.
And the energetic
impact on that was
felt in that part of
the world for thousands
and thousands of years.
And there's a lot
more to be said
about the cleansing of
that site energetically
and spiritually that happened
by the Bushman people
for thousands of years,
that burned fires
for many thousands
of years, to clean
the energy, the dark energy,
that was created there
by these Annunaki
geneticists that
manipulated species and created
cross-breeds that should never
have been created.
But let's carry on looking
at Adam's Calendar,
because this really remains
one of the most important
discoveries because of
the further research
that we found as time went by.
This is the view from
where the stone man would
have stood in its original
place looking due east
at the sunrise on the equinox.
And this is the discovery
that John Heine made.
Spectacular initial
pioneering work,
realizing that
this is a calendar,
aligned with the movement
of the sun, the solstices,
and equinoxes.
Why is it a calendar?
Here's Johan showing us that the
tall stone, the tall of the two
calendar stones in the
center of the calendar,
casts a shadow on
the second stone.
And that shadow
moves from the left
to the right of the
screen, casting a shadow
for every day of the year.
So you could really mark every
day of the year, if you wanted,
and use it as a calendar.
It still works reasonably
accurately today,
although the stones are leaning
towards edge of the cliff.
And through soil shift
towards the edge of the cliff,
they've moved and have
lost their focus a bit.
But it's still reasonably
accurate today.
However, this calendar
effect is just one
of the encoded
benefits of the site.
It is not the main reason
why the site was constructed.
The reason for the site
is far more important
than just the calendar.
And again, once
again, we can say
that it is consistent with
what these ancient sites were,
and why they were constructed,
and how they were manipulated
and controlled by the
movement of the sun
and also possibly the movement
of the stars and the moon.
So this is a view
once again looking out
east at the sunrise.
And we find some very
interesting and important
structures that make
up Adam's Calendar.
So let's have a look what
else the site exposed
when we started researching it.
Well, we discovered
an ancient workshop
where many of the
giant megalithic rocks
seem to have been worked, and
manipulated, and chiseled,
and weird marks that we
found on these stones.
We found a Sphinx-like
carved stone
that clearly was manipulated
and carved into a Sphinx.
A smallest Sphinx, nevertheless,
but very impressive
ancient structures
that were carved out
of the stone that was
brought from somewhere else.
Another important discovery
made at Adam's Calendar
was what seems to be an
ancient statue of a Horus,
a Horus stone, a
Horus bird right
on the edge of the
outer circle of what
used to be the circular
structure of Adam's
Calendar-- the eastern
side of the calendar,
right on the edge of a cliff.
We find an ancient grave
north of Adam's Calendar
that is highly
significant in connection
to Enki and his son Dumuzi.
We find the first
pyramids, or quite arguably
some of the oldest
pyramids on planet Earth
connected to the calendar.
And we found links to Orion, as
we find in many ancient sites.
So let's continue.
Here is an example
of what we refer
to as the ancient
giant workshop.
And these are dolerite
rocks, giant monoliths
that are scattered along
the edge of the cliff that
run between the calendar
site and the stone altar
about 700 meters north,
exactly north of the calendar.
And there are a number of
these giant dolerite stones
that show clear marks of being
worked and chiseled or shaped
in some form.
And there is a processional
path, a ritual path,
that Credo Mutwa
confirmed was used
for undergoing these shamanic
rituals in the ancient times,
right up to as recent as 1937.
And there seems to be
another humanoid kind stone
man that's lying
on its side that
used to stand upright and be a
guardian for this ritual path
that drugs between the calendar
and the stone altar, which
we believe is also a grave.
This is the view from
Adam's Calendar due north.
And right on the horizon,
you see a tree sticking out.
And when we first
saw that tree--
and it was a late afternoon
when Johan and I were there
exploring the site, and I
think it was 2008-- and Johan
looked up and he
saw this tree right
on the edge of the horizon.
And we both went, no,
this is just too strange,
this is not a coincidence.
And on the way out
we stopped, and guess
what we found-- we found
the tree growing out
of a beautiful arrangement of
what we call the stone altar.
And there are about three trees
that are growing out of this.
And it seems that these
trees have been planted there
on purpose for specific
ritualistic purposes.
And the story gets even more
bizarre and more amazing
the deeper you dig, deeper
you delve into the history.
Enki had a young
son called Dumuzi.
This was Enki's
youngest son, who
died, according to the Sumerian
texts, just after the flood.
Now for some
reason, the Annunaki
decided not to bring
Dumuzi back to life.
Because when you read
the Sumerian texts,
every time one of
the Annunaki died
they brought him back to life.
It's interesting that
in Sitchin's work
he refers in the translations
to the rods or the tools
that they used that pulsed and
vibrated with which they would
bring the people back to life.
Pulsed and vibrated, sound,
resonance, frequency,
I think you follow
my drift here, right?
So they for some reason didn't
bring Dumuzi back to life.
Now Dumuzi and Inanna is like
the "Romeo and Juliet" story
in the Sumerian texts--
they were inseparable.
When Dumuzi died,
Inanna was devastated,
and she took his body.
And in one of
Sitchin's books there
is a translation
that reads something
to this extent-- it
says that Inanna took
Dumuzi's body to the deep Abzu.
And we now know that the
Abzu is in southern Africa
where the gold mining
empire was set up.
And she took Dumuzi's
body to the deep Abzu,
which she buried him near
his father's special place
beneath a pile of stones, facing
east so that his soul would
be everlasting.
And this is
fantastic-- and then it
says "in the land all
of the black people".
This is phenomenal, because
our history books tell us
that black people did not
live in southern Africa
until about 3,000 years ago.
And clearly the Sumerian
texts tell us the contrary.
They tell us that black
people, or Africans,
were already living
in southern Africa,
and in the deep Abzu
around 12,000 years ago,
or after the so-called flood.
So there's a
phenomenal story here.
So is it possible that this
site 700 meters north of Adam's
Calendar, or Enki's
Calendar, could possibly
be Dumuzi's grave?
And the answer is, most likely.
Because we did some phenomenal
ground penetrating radar there
that suggests that
there's a cavity there
about three meters deeper
right below the stone altar.
And we also did
infrared photography
that clearly shows there is a
disturbance beneath the stone
altar and beneath
the trees growing out
of that stone altar.
I suggest that if we took
some clippings from the trees
and we had them analyzed,
we would probably
find some human
remains or minerals
that we find in
human bone caught up
in the trees that are growing
out of this stone altar.
So I suggest that this is
most likely the resting place
of Enki's youngest son, Dumuzi.
And we may have a
very strong case
of a real Annunaki being buried
right here on Earth very close
to Adam's Calendar.
Only time will tell, when
we start to excavate this,
if ever we get
permission to do so,
which under current
conditions is highly unlikely.
Because, as you may know,
I'm not on good standing
with the South African
historical authorities
and those that
control the permits
for archaeological digs.
They don't seem to like,
for some reason, the stories
that I tell about
ancient African history
and the information
that has been withheld
from all of our history books.
And this takes us to the
discovery of our little Sphinx.
Halfway between Dumuzi's
grave-- or the stone
altar-- we find this
beautiful carving out
of dolerite stone that
clearly resembles a Sphinx.
It is very badly eroded.
And I must also
state at this stage
that the dolerite
stone has a tendency
to peel, to peel off,
and in little layers.
So some of these
ancient structures
or these ancient statues and
carvings made out of dolerite
may have had facial
features in ancient times,
but because they're so
old, these facial features,
and the more detailed features,
would have eroded and probably
peeled off.
And I find this is possibly
the case with the Sphinx.
Not only with the
Sphinx, but also
with the head of a Sphinx-like
statute inside of Adam's
Calendar, which is clearly a
head that fell off or broke off
one of the bodies that we
find at that particular point.
Here is a beautiful example
of an early Horus bird
or a Horus stone right on
the edge of Adam's Calendar.
This I discovered
one early morning
when I went out there
to have a quick look
at some other things, and
mysterious and by accident
discovered that there's a
Horus stone right on the edge.
It's got a big fat belly.
It's about three meters
tall, so if you stood it up,
it's quite imposing.
Was about nine
feet, 10 feet tall.
And nice big fat belly.
And the head comes around into
the beak of the stone, which
is broken off.
And you can clearly
see that this
was a very, very old carving of
a Horus or a bird-like statute.
If you look at the layout
of Adam's Calendar,
you can see the Horus
bird right there
marking the rise of the
sun, looking at the three
stones that mark the
rise of Orion's belt.
And this is consistent with so
many ancient sites and so many
of these ancient
structures, when
we start studying
ancient civilizations
and their obsession with
the stars, and specifically
Orion's belt, Sirius,
and also the Pleiades.
And the Pleiades play
a very important part
in ancient African
history and also
in the history of the
original people of Australia,
the Pleiades are very
important in all of this.
So how do we date the site,
how do we date the stones?
And this is where it
becomes really fun,
because you can't date stones.
You can't do carbon dating,
although carbon dating has
been shown to be most
likely highly inaccurate.
But we look at every
possible angle.
And I'm going to share some of
these angles that we looked at
and the arguments.
And the first one is geology.
First of all, all the
stones at Adam's Calendar
that make up the actual
site are not from there--
they were brought from somewhere
else to build the actual site.
So that is already a
very strong argument
that the site was created
and built by intent,
and it is not just a natural
formation of stones, which
I must admit that
some archaeologists
and some geologists will hold
onto that nonsensical notion,
even in the face of all
the electronic measurements
that we've done and everything
else that we've presented.
So the dolerite stones were
brought from somewhere else
to construct the site.
It is right on the edge of the
Transvaal Escarpment, which
is a well-recognized
geological feature.
It is known as black reef
quartzite, rich in gold.
Isn't that funny?
Rich in gold.
As I said before, in
front of Adam's Calendar
in the Barberton
valley is where you
find Sheba gold mine and
many, many old ancient gold
mines that have been covered
by the sand from the flood.
The next evaluation we
looked at is the lichen
that grows on the rocks.
Now the lichen in
that you find growing
on this particular stone, the
different types of lichen,
it's that fine material
that grows on the rock.
And some of it is a specific
kind that grows very,
very slowly-- It grows
one millimeter per annum.
Now these stones are
covered in the lichen.
And the wide calendar stone
is about two meters wide.
So for the lichen to
cover that stone from side
to side completely-- not just
one layer, but several layers
of lichen upon lichen growing
on top of each other--
would take thousands
and thousands of years.
So the lichen alone
tells us that the site
is many, many
thousands of years old.
And the evaluation carries on--
we look further at erosion.
And this particular stone
really tickled my fancy
when I first found it, because
the erosion on this stone
was so extreme that
it made me concerned
about the age of the site.
Because the other
stones are not nearly as
eroded as this particular one.
So I thought, well,
maybe the stone
does erode a lot
quicker than we imagine.
Until I met with
Baba Credo Mutwa,
and he told me that
he was initiated
at this particular
site and that it
is a very special sacred site.
And then he told
me on their path
this stone happens to lie
right next to this ritual path
from the calendar to the stone
altar, or Dumuzi's grave.
And they used to stop on
their walk during the ceremony
and they had to urinate
on this particular stone.
So it was the urinating
on the stone that
made it erode a lot quicker than
all the other stores around it.
So that brought a
lot of relief to me,
because it explains why this
one eroded a lot quicker
and took the erosion
argument a lot deeper.
Patina is a
fascinating argument.
Now patina grows on
these particular stones.
And these are the
stones that we find
in the stone ruins scattered
throughout this whole area.
And these are stones
that have very
strong acoustic
properties, which
I'll talk about some more.
But you can see in
this particular image
that the natural
color of the stone
is black-- it's a black color.
And then as it breaks,
the patina starts to grow.
And it's a combination
of calcification
and crystallization.
And the patina grows
both from the outside
and also from the inside.
So it's almost like
it consumes a bit
of the stone from the outside.
But this patina, this
brownish-reddish color
grows very, very slowly.
The crystal substance,
or the crystal formation
of the patina, happens
within milliseconds
if you break the rock-- it
starts to grow immediately.
But the thicker the patina
grows, the slower it grows.
Now by the time you can
see this patina grows
with your naked eye,
when it starts to come up
as a very light
brownish-reddish sort of image,
or it's like a shade that
starts to appear on the rock,
that particular patina growth
is already a few thousand years
old, because it grows so slowly.
So when you find
stones like this one
inside the walls of one
of the stone circles--
this was one of the
standing monoliths.
And clearly it had a tip.
That particular tip
broke off at some stage.
After it broke off-- it's
still standing in place right
now-- after it broke
off, the patina
has grown back on top of that
stone about two millimeters.
Now what I can tell
you is for this patina
to grow back two millimeters
suggests that that stone,
after the tip had
broken off, that stone
has been standing
there for probably
more than 100,000 years.
And this is a very
clear indicator
how old some of
these structures are.
So patina growth is
very, very important.
This is another argument for
the patina growth indicating
how old some of
these structures are.
There are hundreds of carvings
in rock similar to this one
showing the stone circles
with no doors and entrances.
And I've photographed
probably 200
of these on rocks and stones
in the vicinity of the stone
circles.
It seems that they-- I'm not
quite sure whether they carved
the stone circles or the
structure of them first,
or they built the
stone circles and then
they carved the images
into nearby stones to
imitate the structure
of the stone circle.
This is still
puzzling me-- I'm not
quite sure which came first.
But this particular
carving on this flat rock
is a very important
indicator of how old
this carving most likely is, and
how old the stone circles are.
Because whoever created
this carving would not
have called it over
a crack-- there
are enough beautiful
flat stones for you
to make a beautiful fresh
carving into a flat surface
without a crack through it.
So we have to assume
that the crack occurred
after the carving was made.
Now this is the same kind of
rock, black on the inside.
And the patina,
the reddish patina,
grows over the break
when it breaks.
Now when you look at the
crack through this carving,
you cannot see any
black rock at all--
no evidence of the colors
of the rock on the inside,
which means that the patina had
grown back into the crack after
the crack had formed.
And this means that
this carving must
be way more than 50,000 years
old for that patina to fill
that crack so completely.
So once again, simple
observations like this
just defy any logic
why our historians
and our archaeologists
do not take
this kind of clear indication
into consideration.
It boggles the mind, truly.
Here is just a curiosity
how thick-skinned historians
and archaeologists
are when it comes
to the dating of these stone
structures and Adam's Calendar.
This is one of the
ruins in Zimbabwe
and one of the
famous baobab trees
that is estimated to be
about 3,000 years old.
This baobab tree happens
to be growing out
of one of the walls.
Now clearly it
must have happened
when a seed from a nearby
baobab tree fell into the wall,
and then it took
root and started
to grow, pushing the wall aside.
But this is not what our
historians will tell us.
They tell us that
the people that
built this particular
structure had
a particular habit of building
the walls into the tree.
This is how
thick-skinned they are
and how determined they are to
make these ancient sites not
so old.
Because it's impossible for
it to be more than 3,000 years
old, so they had to come up with
a nonsensical idea as to how
the baobab tree could
possibly grow out of the wall.
It's just a lighthearted
moment in this research journey
that we take.
But by far the most
mind boggling discovery
about the age of Adam's Calendar
is the archaeoastronomy.
Because when you look
at the Google shots,
you can clearly see the ancient
site was a circular structure,
and the blob at
the top was north,
and the blob at the
bottom is south.
But you can see that
the north-south does not
run at 12 o'clock, and that
doesn't make any sense.
These guys didn't make mistakes.
They didn't accidentally
build it off north, south,
east, west.
And when we measured
this out, we
found that the misalignment
was about three degrees, 17
minutes, and 43 seconds or
42 seconds counter-clockwise.
And this just doesn't
make any sense.
And remember that
this has got nothing
to do with the precessional
wobble of the earth, the fact
that the earth wobbles on
its axis every 25,000, 26,000
years.
This has got nothing
to do with that.
These are the cardinal points
of planet Earth-- north,
south, east, west.
That does not move,
that should stay fixed.
This is not magnetic
north, this is true north.
So what this tells us is that
Adam's Calendar was constructed
at a time when north,
south, east, west
are not or were not
where they are today.
We just don't know when this is.
And there's some
researchers and scientists
in the past that have speculated
about giant catastrophes
and cataclysms that would've
been so dramatic that would
have actually shifted the
north-south alignment away
from where it is today.
Well, Adam's Calendar
is proof that we've
had such a cataclysm, such a
dramatic event in our history
and the history of this planet,
that shifted north-south away
from where it is today.
And this takes us to another
discovery of Adam's Calendar,
that is the stellar alignment.
Many ancient
cultures are obsessed
with the rise of
Orion, and there's
no greater example
than what was shown
by Robert Bauval and the
Great Pyramids of Giza,
that it aligned with
the rise of Orion.
Well, the same can be
said for Adam's Calendar,
except it seems that Adam's
Calendar is a lot older
than the pyramids at Giza.
And I'm going to come
to that very soon.
Here we have the
Horus stone, which
marks the rise of the sun,
consistent with what we learn
at Egypt, looking at the
rise of Orion-- everything
is very similar to
what we find in Egypt.
And then we discovered
something even more spectacular.
And you know, at this stage I've
been going to Adam's Calendar
for probably about a
year or maybe a bit more
and looking down
into the valley.
And it's like not seeing
the wood for the trees,
until I took a
guy out on a tour.
And he pointed at these
two structures down there
and he said, those look
just like pyramids.
And from that moment on,
the moment you see it,
you cannot see it.
And we realize
that we are looking
at what is most likely two
pyramidal structures right
in the valley.
This is one of the-- and
this is right in the middle
of the Barberton
valley-- and this
is one of the early
photographs of Johan Heine
when he was doing the
early evaluations,
and the measurements, and the
alignments at Adam's Calendar.
You can just see the top of
the stones at the calendar,
and in the distance the
two pyramidal structures
right in the center of
the Barberton valley
as Johan is walking
away from it.
So I asked myself, what is
the statistical probability
that these stone structures,
or these pyramids,
are connected to
Adam's Calendar?
And I thought about
this for a while,
and I realize that these ancient
civilizations did everything
based on sacred geometry.
So I said, let's see if we draw
a golden spiral will it somehow
connect the pyramids
to the calendar.
And if it does, we have a very
good statistical probability
argument that the
two are connected
and that they affect
each other, or they
come from the same period.
And guess what we found?
I drew a golden mean spiral
from Adam's Calendar.
And guess where it ends,
right between the pyramids.
And the statistical probability
of this happening by accident
is several million, if not
several billion, to one.
So the probability argument
is that they're connected.
And somehow it seems that these
pyramidal structures may have
been carved out of the bedrock.
Today that destroyed,
they no longer
look like pyramids, they're
not built from pyramid blocks.
But they still have very
strange energetic anomalies.
For example, just like we found
in the early days of taking
tourists to Adam's
Calendar, the moment you
walk into that structure
you lose satellite,
you lose your GPS connection.
And this is just unbelievable.
You literally step a meter
in and your GPS connection
is gone.
Well, the same
effect happens when
you stand between
the pyramids down
in the valley-- your
GPS connection simply
goes out of the window.
And your GPS starts going
crazy and it keeps changing.
It's not as if it's wrong-- it
keeps changing its position.
It's like it keeps losing its
connection to the satellite
and giving you a
different position where
you're supposed to be.
So what else have we got
about Adam's Calendar?
The mystery just gets
deeper and deeper.
When you connect Adam's
Calendar, or actually
the pyramids of Adam's
Calendar, to Great Zimbabwe,
or what I believe is Enki's
house, or the headquarters
of this vast gold mining
operation of the Annunaki,
guess where it takes you?
Right to the Great
Pyramid of Giza.
And this is all along
the Nilotic meridian,
or the ancient 31 degrees
east longitudinal line,
which I believe was the ancient
GMT-- Greenwich Mean Time--
line was 31 degrees east.
It connects the
Great Pyramid of Giza
with Great Zimbabwe
and Adam's Calendar?
What is the coincidence of that?
You make up your own mind.
But one of the most
important discoveries
I made in terms of dating Adam's
Calendar, or Enki's Calendar,
comes from one of Zecharia
Sitchin's translations.
And I must admit, I
nearly fell on my back
when I first read this.
Because it is as if
he had completely
predicted the discovery
of this ancient site.
And this is what it says.
"40 shar often
arriving on Earth, Enki
built a special place of
observing in the deep Abzu
on the edge of a cliff
aligned with his abode
in the north and the peaks."
Now I suggest this
his abode in the north
is Great Zimbabwe-- it's
aligned, as we know.
And the peaks-- I
don't think they're
referring to the
Great Pyramid of Giza
here, because I think
this site was established
before the pyramid
of Giza was built.
But I think they're
referring to the pyramids
in the valley that are aligned
with the actual calendar--
as we've shown, it's connected
with a golden spiral.
If you do the numbers
on this, if one shar is
3,600 years-- as Zecharia
Sitchin suggests-- and you take
40 shar multiplied by 3,600, and
you subtract that from 435,000,
or around that number-- which
Zecharia Sitchin suggests
is the time when
the Annunaki arrived
on Earth-- the number
you come up with
is around 285,000 years.
So what this tells us,
that Adam's Calendar
was built around
285,000 years ago.
And much of this is consistent
with the creation of humanity
and the sudden appearance of
Homo sapiens on this planet.
We're going to end the
story of Adam's Calendar
here, although I could go
on for a long, long time.
And in the next
episode, we're going
to pick up with the significance
of the millions of stone
circles in southern Africa
and what they really are.
I'm Michael Tellinger,
and thanks for watching.
[THEME MUSIC]